the United
Nations led
polio vaccination
campaign kicked off on Sunday,
giving shots to around 87,000 children.
Now, the UN's agency
for Palestinian refugees
says the
second phase of the campaign
will be focused
on the south of the strip.
All the
all of the initial shots
are scheduled
to be administered by September the 12th.
I remember the promises to immunize
640,000 kids in the enclave.
Let's give us an update
on what is an enormously difficult
logistical challenges.
Rick Peppercorn,
the World Health Organization
representative for the West Bank
and Gaza,
not just organizing
but actually involved
in the administering of these vaccines.
It's good to have you, Rick.
Thank you for joining us.
Firstly,
this this vaccination drive
can only happen
if these temporary ceasefires hold.
Correct.
So tell us how that going at present.
Well, definitely.
And indeed.
And the daunting task for all of us.
And greetings from all of us in Gaza,
the Arabella,
which is also
the polio emergency operation center.
So the task is to indeed reach 90%,
90% vaccination coverage of 640,000
children
every year, rounds for two rounds.
And we welcome this commitment
issue right
set from area
specific humanitarian forces.
And that's why we
we defined it in Gaza in three zones.
So in a in a central zones,
in central zone
and in southern zone
and in northern zone,
each zone
we will vaccinate for three days,
most likely another day, three plus one.
And then we shift to the other zone.
And then four weeks later we do the same.
So we,
we we started yesterday
with the seventh zone and
and the southern zone.
The target
population is one of the 56,583.
Then we moved to the south
target population
three inches 40,000 case
and naught one on the 50.
So yesterday was a good day.
It was actually a successful day.
I was not completely surprised
because the Gaza population
deaths and high
except of for vaccination.
But I think they came out
in their droves.
Families, fathers, modest,
having children.
I visited 6 or 7 of those centers
and happy children
showing their left little finger
that they were
vaccinated and be vaccinated.
More than 86,000 almost 87,000
children in in one day.
Now, this is a
this is a remarkable
challenge and a remarkable feat
that you've
been able
to get these jabs into the arms
of all this vaccine, into the,
into so many kids at this point.
Tell me,
where were these kids coming from?
Who are they coming with?
And what kind of state within
welcoming of Reverend Vitor fathers
which are models, etc..
So today, for example, is the second day
and I went with a few mobile teams
and we went
and maybe you know that from the
from the television
era, from TV,
this, this endless colorful roads,
which is endless, makeshift camps
all over.
We went all over in those camps
with one of these, mobile teams.
And everywhere,
you know,
where we met mothers and fathers
with groups of children.
I mean, in those camps,
almost every child was vaccinated.
So we reached a high target.
And I think maybe we even,
underestimated the target
in the central zone,
because with the recent
evacuation orders,
the Gaza
population is constantly in flux.
but I say there is.
And real appetite for this vaccination.
People realize why and how.
And again,
we should not forget that
Gaza always has a very high coverage
in routine
immunization before this crisis.
coverage over 90, 95%.
You
you are absolutely
relying on these temporary
ceasefires, holding in order to get,
as many of these vaccines
into kids as you can.
What's your message
to Israel and Hamas as we speak?
And what are the consequences for Gaza
and Israel
and indeed surrounding countries
if this polio outbreak
is not brought under control?
Well, I think it's it's
the message is, of course, that,
we have a plan
and all this it's incredibly complex.
I mean, I cannot even describe
to 513 teams operational, etc..
And every day from six till two
and all the other teams
that manages their war
to midnight, actually analyzes
monitoring, independent monitoring.
I can't even describe how complex it is.
I don't the things in Afghanistan
this is way more complex.
So the request is very clear.
All the pieces of this puzzle
have to fit together.
And the most important,
this is, of course, this
area specific humanitarian pause us,
which the parties have to stick to
because otherwise,
if it would have happened,
we will not never reach this goal.
did, this target, the children,
their parents,
everybody will lose their confidence
with the risk
that we do not stop the transmission
within Gaza,
and indeed, that the risk of polio spread
out of Gaza and that we, the World Health
Organization, all member states,
we are working to eradicate
polio of world.
We have only two countries
where you have the wild polio virus
vanished in Pakistan.
You see this
vaccine derived outbreaks always in areas
of strife and war,
children under vaccinators.
So we have to tackle this, problem.
Right on. I want to say one more point.
There is a bit of a fight,
a positive fight
about this polio campaign.
We are only in day two.
We have ten more days to go
and then four weeks later
and the others,
the rest of the health situation
is deeply concerning.
Only yesterday I had another W.H.O.
team going to the north,
bringing few medical supplies,
and taking patients out to get of it.
Yes, from Indonesian hospital.
Come at Walnut Safra.
This was the surge
mission, only approved
out of eight missions over the last week.
And they came back
at 1:00 in the morning.
Highly dangerous, highly risky
and completely unnecessary.
This has to improve.
And my other request,
of course, is everyone.
This would work much better
if if there would be a ceasefire
and we can make other arrangements.
I mean, this is not an ideal campaign.
In ideal situation,
you want to go house to house.
There's very few houses left.
So we made myself
understand for war, people.
Understood.
Well, you've
delineated
very erudite Lee,
just the sort of challenges
that your organization
and others supporting you.
are, facing.
but the numbers at present, as you say,
bode well, which is,
you know, a
small ray of light in
what has been such a dark,
dull, dark ten months.
Thank you very much
indeed for your own work
and for joining us today.